# Group Assignment #1: Project Proposal
### An introduction of our research question
Social Media is a large contributor to the spread of information worldwide, and especially younger audiences. We wondered how apps like Twitter contribute to the spread of information about the CoronaVirus Vaccine, and other news regarding the status of the pandemic. We also wonder how social media reflects the socio political climates of various countires and cities, and how such climates may be influencing public opinion towards the vaccine.

Presentation here: https://github.com/wdnmd97/DH140_Group_Project/blob/main/Group%20Assignments/Midterm%20Presentation.ipynb

### Why does it matter?
How do users respond to news about the vaccine? Do users in different geographical areas respond differently to news about the vaccine? What demographics of people are getting the vaccine? What demographics aren’t? Does the spread of information influence how successful vaccine distribution is performed? These are some questions that, if answered, can help predict better practices of vaccine distribution. It can also help us relieve public panic, by understanding how to release educational info regarding the CoronaVirus, the vaccine, and the current state of the World Health Organization. By doing so, we hope to understand the steps needed to help more people receive the vaccine faster.

### Description of the spatial scope.
The spatial scope of our data will be global, as we would like to learn how different countries are responding to the virus. Our dataset, however, is heavily localized around Canada, India, the US, and the UK. Therefore, we will be focusing on the differences between these three countries. Spatializing the data will help us understand who responds most heavily to the virus over social media. Time is a valuable metric for correlating spikes of numbers with events like shutdown policies and infected case numbers. We have seen a dramatic increase of users in the latter hald of 2020, and will be tracking this number alongside sentiment scores as time progresses.

### Description of data sources.
As of now, the datasets we will be using are the Pfizer and BioNTech Vaccine Tweets Dataset and the COVID-19 by country dataset, both are updated daily. The Pfizer and BioNTech Vaccine Tweets Dataset is posted on Kaggle and created by Gabriel Preda, who is a data scientist in Romania. The dataset includes variables such as users’ names, locations, and  their original tweets about the vaccines. The COVID-19 dataset is also posted on Kaggle and includes critical statistics like total cases, deaths and recoveries. The links to the datasets are:
  * https://www.kaggle.com/gpreda/pfizer-vaccine-tweets
  * https://www.kaggle.com/jcsantiago/covid19-by-country-with-government-response

### Intended analysis and resulting visualizations.
Using these datasets, we will analyze the variation of new Twitter users created with respect to time. This is assuming some users who care about the vaccine joined twitter due to the pandemic. This visualization will be a histogram. We will also perform analysis on the sentiment of the user's tweets with respect to the user location (assume the users are physically at the stated location). The visualization will be a bubble map (size=number of users, color=average sentiment, location=country).

### Conclusion and expectations.
We have seen that the regions which have extreme sentiment scores are from users tweeting in regions that are having a hard time fighting the pandemic. We also see that politically active regions of developed countries have been more active on twitter, such as New York New Dheli and Mumbai. We have now vategorized tweets by cities, and country, allowing us to gain a better understanding of people's opinions towards the COVID vaccine. Now, we must contextualize this information by looking at recent political and social events that may skew sentiment scores. We can also check to see if sentiment score averages have changed overtime and try and draw connections between this change and socio political events, as well as information spread through scoial media. Lastly, we may compare the opinions of countries with high social media usage to those with less usage, but it may also be unfair to do so since there is more bias for countries with less social media usage since there are less users controlling the sentiment score average. Nevertheless, we hope to dive deeper into our data analystics to gain a better understanding of how contemporary media may be affecting the way people think, and send out their opinions to others.
